
# Abstract

Soybean is one of the most important legume crops worldwide. Soybean pests have a considerable impact on crop yield. Here, we integrated publicly available genome-wide association studies and transcriptomic data to prioritize candidate resistance genes against the insects Aphis glycines and Spodoptera litura, and the nematode Heterodera glycines. We identified 171, 7, and 228 high-confidence candidate resistance genes against A. glycines, S. litura, and H. glycines, respectively. We found some overlap of candidate genes between insect species, but not between insects and H. glycines. Although 15% of the prioritized candidate genes encode proteins of unknown function, the vast majority of the candidates are related to plant immunity processes, such as transcriptional regulation, signaling, oxidative stress, recognition, and physical defense. Based on the number of resistance alleles, we selected the ten most promising accessions against each pest species in the soybean USDA germplasm. The most resistant accessions do not reach the maximum theoretical resistance potential, indicating that they might be further improved to increase resistance in breeding programs or through genetic engineering. Finally, the coexpression networks we inferred in this work are available in a user-friendly web application (https://soypestgcn.venanciogroup.uenf.br/) and an R/Shiny package (https://github.com/almeidasilvaf/SoyPestGCN) that serve as a public resource to explore soybean-pest interactions at the transcriptional level.
